RFP-008/012: Adopt Morpho Blue design for lending (#42)
logos-co/rfp: RFPs/RFP-008-lending-borrowing-protocol.md

3. Provide a CLI that covers core functionality of the program.
   The CLI may have fewer features than the GUI mini-app but must
   support all essential operations.
4. The reference liquidator (F15) and reference risk monitor (F16)
   are implemented as Logos modules with headless CLIs/daemons,
   suitable for third parties to fork and run independently.

> 5. The mini-app supports creating markets, supplying, borrowing,

Author: ```suggestion
5. The Logos app (loadable in Basecamp) supports creating markets, supplying, borrowing,
```

Author: Actually, just call it "GUI".

But define somehwhere as a hard that Logos app, aka a QML+C++ UI Module for GUI, and a core module with the business logic, must be delivered. the core module would also be used by the "headless" mode. ensure code is composabile.

Author: Done in 7335e4c.

Renamed mini-app → GUI throughout RFP-008 and RFP-012. Added new Usability U2 to RFP-008 defining the Logos app architecture: core module (business logic, no GUI deps) + QML+C++ GUI module that consumes it, both built and shipped independently. The CLI, reference liquidator, and reference risk monitor all consume the same core module — composability is explicit. RFP-012 U1 updated to reference the core-module extension point so the second RFP plugs in cleanly.

   originating private account, the destination of re-shielded tokens,
   and any link between separate interactions by the same user).
3. When using the private account path, the SDK must validate that the
   target account for re-shielding is a private (shielded) account
   before submitting the transaction, and reject the operation with an
   explicit error if it is not.
4. The ephemeral public account (account A) created during the
   deshield step must never be reused across operations. Each protocol
   interaction from a private account must use a freshly generated
   account with no prior on-chain history. Because LEZ accounts are
   keypair-derived (Solana-style), generating an account with no
   on-chain history is trivial; preventing reuse, however, is an SDK
   responsibility. Applicants must document how the SDK enforces
   single-use (for example, fresh-keypair-per-operation, a
   deterministic single-use derivation scheme tied to a nonce, or a
   local registry of consumed ephemeral keys) and how it survives
   client restarts and multi-device usage without reuse.

### Soft Requirements

If possible.

#### Reliability

> 1. Multi-oracle redundancy: at least two independent oracle providers

Author: I thought one oracle was defined per market, clarify

Author: Clarified in 6c7059b.

You're right: oracle is per-market, chosen by the market creator at market-creation time (F3, permissionless), not gated by the admin. There's no "approved oracles list" on mainnet. Removed that out-of-scope bullet and replaced with an explicit note that the IRM (which IS admin-whitelisted per F11) is the only mainnet-approval choice in scope-out; oracle choice is per-creator. Also updated the Overview paragraph to match.

   per market, with fallback when the primary is stale or unavailable.

#### Functionality
1. On-chain bundler program: a separate LEZ program that composes
   approve + supply + borrow (and similar multi-step user actions)
   into one atomic tail-call chain, modelled on Morpho's
   [`morpho-blue-bundlers`](https://github.com/morpho-org/morpho-blue-bundlers).
   The SDK uses the bundler rather than re-implementing composition
   off-chain.

### Out of Scope

The following are explicitly excluded from this RFP.

This RFP funds **software**. The mainnet deployment of that software,

> and the governance around it, is handled by Logos through a separate

Author: ```suggestion
and the governance around it, is handled through a separate
```

Not by Logos.

Author: Done in 6c7059b. Dropped "by Logos" — now reads "handled through a separate process" without naming the handler.

- Holder, custody, or rotation policy for the admin authority on
  mainnet.
- Any governance design (token, DAO, multisig) around the admin
  authority.

Curation layer features, deferred to [RFP-012](./RFP-012-curated-lending-vaults.md):

- Curated vault abstraction: single-asset deposit vaults allocating
  across multiple markets with a curator-managed strategy
- Vault share tokens (receipt tokens): transferable LEZ fungible
  tokens representing a vault deposit position
- Supply and borrow caps (enforced at the vault layer, not the core)
- Allocator and sentinel roles for vault governance

Other exclusions:

- Alternative IRM implementations beyond AdaptiveCurveIRM. Additional
  IRMs may be enabled later by the admin, but are not deliverables of
  this RFP.
- Native stablecoin issuance (CDP-style minting against collateral)
- Governance token design and distribution
- Cross-chain liquidity or bridging
- Leveraged looping / one-click multiply products
- Each market has exactly one collateral token; users compose
  multi-collateral exposure by holding positions across multiple
  markets, optionally via curated vaults (RFP-012).

> ### Open Questions

Author: be sure this is a clear action items/TODO in teh PR description

Author: Done. Lifted the indexer placement decision out of the "open questions for reviewers" section into a new top-level **Action items / open decisions before merge** section in the PR description, framed as an explicit TODO checkbox. The three placement options (RFP-008 / RFP-012 / separate RFP) are spelled out, with logos-co/ecosystem#137 as the tracking issue. The `[OPEN]` block in RFP-008 itself stays in place so future readers of the RFP see the same context.
